This project recreates the Flappy Bird Game with some twists using Python. The game includes a bird that must navigate through pipes by flapping its wings to stay in the air, while avoiding collisions with the pipes and the ground. The game has a simple scoring system: the player earns points for passing through pipes.

In addition to the classical Flappy Bird, I created a couple interesting features to the game. 

Firstly, I made the game with my own aesthetics, which involved creating images and GIFs through drawing digitally and the use of Midjourney. The overall theme adopts Chinese caligraphy drawing style and the background wraps around as the game continues on. 

Secondly, although as time passes, the game gets harder as the bird travels faster, there are powerups that players can collect during the gameplay to aim for a higher score. The blue shield icon allows players to be crashproof for 6 seconds while displaying a countdown. The pink icon temporarily enlargens the gap size between pipes. The coins allow players to purchase additional background themes. Once the player finishes a round, they are prompted to enter a nickname to be recorded on the scoreboard. 

Thirdly, I created an algorithm for a shadow bird. The player can activate the shadow bird on the upper right corner of the game start screen whose pathway is generated by code to navigate the ideal path. 

Lastly, upon clicking the upper rightmost button, a menu appears with "About", "Scoreboard", "Game Store", and "Create Your Own". "Scoreboard" tracks the top three scores. The "Game Store" is where players can obtain new themes with coins they were awarded during the gameplay. Lastly, "Create Your Own" is a sandbox where players can customize their own backgrounds. The player chooses a theme that is available to them, through purchase in the Game Store. Then, a customization page appears and allows users to place elements wherever they want in the background. After returning to the main page, users can play using the custom background.